# CS 340 - Client/Server Development

- How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?
    
    ** Many aspects go into making a project maintainable, readable, and adaptable. Practices such as using descriptive method names and variable names as well as limiting methods to serving a single purpose are always good design habits. It's also important to design your classes and methods to reusable, by doing things such as allowing configuration values to be based on initialization, much like the AnimalShelter constructor in the CRUD.py module.** 
    
- How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?
    
    **For projects where the tech stack is not specified, my typical approach to a computer science problem is to weigh the best choice for the stack. In this project's case, it was decided that mongo/python would be technologies in use. For the dashboard design, I thought about the logic flow of the page before committing to a design. When working as a developer, it is important to occasionally put on the hat of a UX designer, and I often take that approach when I am working on web pages like the one for this project.** 
    
- What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?
    
    **The main goal of a computer scientist is to automate often monotonous tasks, to minimize errors in jobs that are calculation heavy, to provide predictive models and insight from data, and to do many, many other things. This matters because our economy and how we communicate in the 21st century has come to be defined by data and how systems interact with one another. We need computer scientists to be able to maintain and update these systems as necessary. My work on this type of project could help a company like Grazioso Salvare limit the amount of time they spend on research, and streamline their business decisions based on data. It also provides them with an easy way to visualize their decisions in a graphical format.**
